Bienvenue Chez vous
a game by Ghislain "Court-Jus" Lévêque for 2 to 5 players
The players are house builders and try to build the best house for their client with a limited budget.
Components
1 individual player board for each player
1 first player token
15 worker cubes (3 per player)
5 score markers (1 per player)
1 common board
100 room tiles
xx spcecial action cards
xx antitrust cards
xx objective cards
Money
Door markers
Setup
Each player takes 1 individual board and 3 workers.
Shuffle all the special action and antitrust cards in one deck and the objective cards in another deck.
Put the common board, the money, the doors and the two decks (face down) within the reach of everyone. Put 1 score marker per player on the "0" position of the score track.
Separate the outdoor tiles from the indoor tiles, shuffle them. Make one face down pile for outdoor tiles and 2 face down piles per player for indoor tiles (with 3 players, you will make 6 piles). Turn face up the first tile of half the indoor piles.
Each player receives 1 objective card and takes money according to what is written on this objetive card. The objective card describes the house that must be built (how many rooms...).
Randomly choose the first player.
The game
The game is divided in turns.
Game turn
Starting with the first player, each player can take one "worker" action and one "free" action. When every worker is placed or when every player has passed, the turn ends.
The player then take their workers back, the first player changes (to the left) and the cards played during the turn are revealed face up.
Worker action
These actions require the player to use one of his workers. A player with no more workers cannot choose one of these actions.
In this section, when talking about something free (free pile for example), it means that there is no worker on it. It is not possible to play an action if another worker is already present there.
Draw a tile
Draw 2 tiles from any free pile, choose 1 of them and discard the other one in the discount. Put 1 worker on the pile you've drawn from. Now you have to pay the price of the choosen tile in order to put it on your individual board.
When you put a tile on your player board, if it is adjacent to another one, they must share a door. If they don't, you have to pay 1 extra [MONEY] to open a door. Put a door marker on the wall you want to open.
Draw a discount tile
Choose one of the tiles present in the discount zone, pay the price of the tile minus the discount value. Every tile present to the right of the bought tile are moved left (if you buy the -2 card, then the -3 card goes to the -2 zone and the -4 card goes to the -3 zone).
Draw a card
Choose the draw pile or the discard pile. The choosen pile must be free. If you choose the draw pile, take 2 cards, choose one and discard this other one (face down). If you choose the discard pile, draw the last discarded card.
Put 1 worker on the pile you've drawn from.
Trigger a card
Choose a face up free card. Put 1 worker on it an apply its effects. If it's a special action card and you're not its owner, its owner applies the "owner" effects.
When you apply the effects of a card, ignore the workers present on the draw or discard pile. If a card says that you can draw, then you can draw even if a worker is present on the draw pile.
Free action
Play a card
Play a card face down from your hand to your special action zone or to the main board antitrust zone. This action does not require a worker. The card will only be revealed at the end of the turn and cannot be triggered until then.
Details
The discount
When a tile should be added to the discount and it is already full, the -4 card is removed from the game.
